However before looking at the Cisco IOS you need to connect to a device.
And in this video I'm going to connect to a Cisco router.
So I want to show you the physical connections so that you know how to connect to the console of a Router
Set up your computer to access the console using hyper terminal as an example in Windows.
There are many terminal emulation options available to you hyper terminal Tehrik term and Patty are
some examples who turn on the router and look at the start up process to see how the Rodda boots.
And then we'll run the initial configuration dialog which isn't really used that often by networking
engineers in the real world but it's well worth looking at it so that you're aware that it exists.
The initial configuration dialog allows you to configure some basic configuration options on a Cisco
router but these days Cisco have introduced other ways of configuring devices.
So most Cisco engineers only look at the initial configuration dialog once or twice and I suggest you
do the same.
Have a look at it see what it does.
Get an understanding of what it provides.
But in the real world you're going to configure networking devices using the command line interface
and specific commands rather than following the initial configuration dialog.
So as mentioned the exec interface is where you going to be configuring networking devices and this
is WAY YOU as a Cisco engineer are going to be spending a lot of time.
You need to get very very comfortable with the layout and commands available in the exec interface.
You'll probably never memorize all the commands available in the Cisco IOS.
There are thousands and thousands of commands that you need to learn at least some of them to be able
to configure a Cisco router or switch.
So we're going to look at some of the modes available.
And as mentioned this causes a lot of confusion don't type the right C'mon in the wrong mode as the
Cisco Radu a switch or won't accept it.
So if a command is not accepted by your router will switch.
Firstly make sure that you're in the right mode and secondly make sure that you are working on the right
device.
Now like all things in life the more you practice the easier it becomes.
So spend time practicing commands on Cisco routers and switches.
I'm going to show you some exec interface tips and tricks which you'll find really useful in the real
world to save you time.